Welcome to the README file for my lab 1 project! 

Link to map: https://ubc-geob472-spring2020.github.io/tracyw04-web/lab1/australianfires.html

Reflective analysis:
My goal within this interactive map is to showcase the active fires in Australia on Christmas (December 25, 2019) last year. The purpose of this map was to show regions in Australia that were affected on Christmas, as well as point out the main regions with the largest fire incidences. The purpose is to show a general audience regions that were most affected by the fires, with special emphasis on regions of more intense fires. Hence, the center of the map was set based on the coordinates of Australia. Data was taken from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) from NASA satellite imaging. The idea that I had before starting the map, was to showcase each incidence as a red circle, making proportional circles based off the brightness (ie. Intensity of fire).. Hence, my goal was to draw each point as a proportional symbol, while also allowing interactivity to know more information on each fire location.

The base map was chosen to be a simple black vector background that listed major cities, as I really wanted to be able to highlight the fires (The red would contrast well with the black background). I decided to include a few contextual layers to provide more information, such as state boundaries, names of cities/country/states, hillshading and waterbodies. These variables can provide insight on what sort of areas was affected and who were affected (for example major cities like Sydney). White colors for text was done to contrast the black base map. State borders as well as country borders were included to see states most affected. Water was chosen to be a light dark blue to allow contrast with the base map while showing waterbodies. I wanted the largest data value of brightness (477.4) to have the largest radius size (being 10). I used the perceptual scaling formula to aid in distinguishing differences. I did not want too big in circles as I wanted the reader to see each state affected. Visual hierarchy was accomplished using darker colors on top of the black background, with darker red data points of higher focus (ie. More intense fires). Fire intensity was categorized by 3 values, being under 330, between 330 and 364.5 inclusive, and larger than 364.5. The effect did come out quite nice, with a contour surrounding each circle to show each fire point. Improvements to this map can include more interactivity (for example, listing the top 4 areas affected by the fire), as well as including other variables such as population and smoke data.

Circle radius formula: (brightness / 477.4)^0.57 * 10

Map critique session:
My friend took a look at my map, and said he liked the red dots. They were very easy to symbolize fire so he was able to make the inference right away. He stated that some areas the dots are clustered together so would have to zoom in to see each dot. One possible way to make this better is to add a “border” or halo effect around each dot, which I ended up including. He also did not know what brightness and time meant, so I changed the wording from “Brightness” in legend to “Intensity of fire by brightness” and decided to remove time as it was when the satellite acquired the image (and is not that helpful). He also gave idea that for brighter fires, have it more brightly colored and vice versa.  I also included a data source statement on the map.
Data source: https://nrt4.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/archive/FIRMS/c6/Australia_NewZealand 
